What is Cloud Computing? Cloud computing is the delivery of computing services over the internet

Shared responsibility model: this model is used on cloud services and states that both the cloud provider and the consumer have responsibilities regarding the CIA trinity. The exact division of responsibilities depends on the service you are using on the cloud, although the information, data, accounts, and identities are always under consumer responsibility, and security, maintenance and all other services related to the physical space and datacenters are always under the cloud provider's responsibility. The service model will determine responsibility for things like Operating systems, Network controls and Applications.

Private cloud: used by a single entity. The entity has more control over it but has to absorb a greater cost.
Public cloud: built, maintained, and controlled by a third party.
Hybrid cloud: an environment that uses both public and private clouds in an inter-connected environment.
Multi-cloud: it is the use of services of public cloud from different cloud providers.

Cloud computing operates on a consumption-based model. You only pay for what you use. This is great because you can adapt your infrastructure accordingly to your needs at the moment.

Cloud services are known for their high availability and scalability. In terms of scalability, there are two options: vertical (machine upgrade) and horizontal (no of machines deployed)

If you want maximum control of security, infrastructure as a service provides you with physical resources but lets you manage the operating systems and installed software, including patches and maintenance. If you want patches and maintenance taken care of automatically, platform-as-a-service or software-as-a-service deployments may be the best cloud strategies for you.

There are two types of manageability for cloud computing:

 - Management of the cloud
Management of the cloud speaks to managing your cloud resources. In the cloud, you can:

Automatically scale resource deployment based on need.
Deploy resources based on a preconfigured template, removing the need for manual configuration.
Monitor the health of resources and automatically replace failing resources.
Receive automatic alerts based on configured metrics, so you’re aware of performance in real time.

 - Management in the cloud
Management in the cloud speaks to how you’re able to manage your cloud environment and resources. You can manage these:

Through a web portal.
Using a command line interface.
Using APIs.
Using PowerShell.

Infrastructure as a service (IaaS) is the most flexible category of cloud services, as it provides you the maximum amount of control for your cloud resources. In an IaaS model, the cloud provider is responsible for maintaining the hardware, network connectivity (to the internet), and physical security. You’re responsible for everything else: operating system installation, configuration, and maintenance; network configuration; database and storage configuration; and so on. With IaaS, you’re essentially renting the hardware in a cloud datacenter, but what you do with that hardware is up to you.

Platform as a service (PaaS) is a middle ground between renting space in a datacenter (infrastructure as a service) and paying for a complete and deployed solution (software as a service). In a PaaS environment, the cloud provider maintains the physical infrastructure, physical security, and connection to the internet. They also maintain the operating systems, middleware, development tools, and business intelligence services that make up a cloud solution. In a PaaS scenario, you don't have to worry about the licensing or patching for operating systems and databases. PaaS is well suited to provide a complete development environment without the headache of maintaining all the development infrastructure.

Software as a service (SaaS) is the most complete cloud service model from a product perspective. With SaaS, you’re essentially renting or using a fully developed application. Email, financial software, messaging applications, and connectivity software are all common examples of a SaaS implementation. While the SaaS model may be the least flexible, it’s also the easiest to get up and running. It requires the least amount of technical knowledge or expertise to fully employ.

